# Design Document for Materialize Terraform Provider

The proposed updates to the Materialize Terraform provider aim to streamline the management of resources within Materialize, offering a unified interface for global and regional resources. The provider will leverage a single authentication method, an app password, to derive the necessary configurations for seamless interaction with various services. It will also incorporate a dynamic client allocation mechanism to handle different resource types and their requirements.

## Provider Overview

### Objectives

-   To provide a singular Terraform provider capable of interfacing with multiple backends and services.
-   To facilitate the management of global resources and regional deployments through a consistent workflow.
-   To enable a high degree of automation in resource provisioning and management, thereby reducing manual overhead and potential for errors.

### Features

-   **Single Authentication**: Utilizing an app password to access and manage resources without the need for multiple credentials.
-   **Global and Regional Resource Management**: Allowing users to manage resources that are not bound by regional constraints, as well as those that are region-specific.
-   **Dynamic Client Allocation**: Depending on the resource's requirement, the appropriate client (DB, Frontegg, Cloud API and etc.) will be allocated dynamically.

## Architecture

### Provider Configuration

The provider will be initialized with parameters that determine its behavior and default settings:

```hcl
provider "materialize" {
  app_password   = var.materialize_app_password
  default_region = var.materialize_default_region
}
```

Users will specify the app password and the default region for operations. Optionally, the endpoint can be overridden for testing or staging purposes by defining a `MZ_ENDPOINT` environment variable or "endpoint" parameter in the provider configuration block.

The `MZ_ENDPOINT` environment variable will be hidden from the provider's documentation and will be used only for testing and development purposes.

### Multi-Client Structure

The provider will maintain a map of clients for database operations across different regions and a client for interfacing with the Frontegg API.

```hcl
type ProviderMeta struct {
    DB       map[Region]*clients.DBClient
    Frontegg *clients.FronteggClient
    // Future: CloudAPI *clients.CloudAPIClient
}
```

This structure allows for scalability and extension of the provider to incorporate additional clients as necessary.

## Resources and Operations

### Region Resource

Responsible for managing the availability of Materialize regions. It will interact with the Cloud API to enable or retrieve regions as requested by the user.

```hcl
resource "materialize_region" "aws_us_east_1" {
  region = "aws/us-east-1"
}
```

Operations:

-   **Enable Region**: Uses the Cloud API to enable a new region.
-   **Read Region**: Retrieves the status of a region from the Cloud API.
-   **Disable Region**: Noop. Regions cannot be disabled once enabled.

### User Resource

Manages the lifecycle of a user within the Frontegg platform.

```hcl
resource "materialize_user" "example_user" {
  email          = "user@example.com"
  auth_provider  = "local"
  organization_roles  = ["admin", "member"]
  # Additional attributes...
}
```

Operations:

-   **Create User**: Invokes the Frontegg API to create/invite a user.
-   **Read User**: Retrieves user details from Frontegg.
-   **Update User**: Attaches or detaches roles from the user.
-   **Delete User**: Removes the user from Frontegg.

### Organization Data Source?

Gets the associated organization for the provided app password.

```hcl
data "materialize_app_organization" "current" {}
```

Operations:

-   **List Organizations**: Fetches all available organizations from Frontegg.

### Role Data Source

Generates a list of available roles from Frontegg.

```hcl
data "materialize_organization_roles" "all" {}
```

Operations:

-   **List Roles**: Fetches all available roles from Frontegg.

## Testing Strategy

Along the existing unit tests described in the [design document](../../DESIGN.md), the provider will include a comprehensive suite of tests for all resources and operations, including:

-   **Unit Tests**: Will run against a test Materialize environment or a mock service to ensure that the provider functions correctly in isolation.
-   **Integration Tests**: Will run against staging instance to confirm that the provider interacts correctly with the actual services.
-   **Acceptance Tests**: То be determined.

## State Management

The provider will ensure that the Terraform state reflects the true state of resources in Materialize Cloud and Frontegg, using Terraform's state management capabilities.

## User Experience and Documentation

Users should be able to easily upgrade to the new provider version without having to make significant changes to their existing configurations.

The release should include clear documentation and examples to help users understand the new features and how to use them.

This should be clearly communicated to users through release notes and other channels.

Clear and detailed documentation will accompany the provider, explaining usage, resource configuration, and troubleshooting.

### Edge Case Management

Further exploration of how the provider will handle edge cases, such as delays in region enablement or Frontegg API failures, will be included in the design document.

## Database Resource

### Integration with Frontegg and Global API

The Materialize Terraform provider will integrate with the Frontegg API to dynamically fetch the necessary credentials and regional endpoint information.

This approach streamlines the process of establishing SQL connections across various Materialize regions using a single app password.

### Resource Definitions

#### Cluster in an Existing Region

To create a cluster in a region that has been previously enabled, users can define a `materialize_cluster` resource without creating a dependency on the region's resource within Terraform. This is useful when operating in regions activated outside the scope of the current Terraform configuration.

```hcl
resource "materialize_cluster" "eu_west_1_cluster" {
  region = "aws/eu-west-1"
  # Additional configuration options...
}
```

#### Cluster in the Default Provider Region

For convenience, users can create clusters without specifying a region, in which case the provider uses the default region specified in the provider's configuration block. This simplifies resource definitions and maintains consistency across Terraform configurations.

```hcl
resource "materialize_cluster" "default_region_cluster" {
  # The provider will infer the region from the default settings.
  # Additional configuration options...
}
```

#### Cluster in a Terraform-Enabled Region

When a region is enabled within Terraform, resource definitions can reference the `materialize_region` resource. This ensures that Terraform manages dependencies correctly, creating the cluster only after the region is fully enabled.

```hcl
resource "materialize_cluster" "us_east_1_cluster" {
  region = materialize_region.aws_us_east_1.region
  # Additional configuration options...
}
```

### Enhanced Workflow

The provider will handle the following workflow:

1.  **Authentication**: Utilize the app password to retrieve the username associated with the provided token.
2.  **Regional Endpoint Retrieval**: Query the global API to obtain the hostname and port for the specified region.
3.  **SQL Connection Establishment**: Connect to the desired region's SQL interface using the retrieved credentials and endpoint information.
4.  **Resource Management**: Facilitate the creation, updating, and deletion of resources within the connected region using the established SQL connection.

### Error Handling and Region Validation

The provider will have error handling to provide clear and actionable feedback when:

-   A specified region is not enabled or in the process of being disabled.
-   There are network or authentication issues while establishing the SQL connection.

### Simplifying Configuration

By abstracting away the complexities of managing credentials and endpoints, the provider allows users to focus on the high-level definitions of their Materialize infrastructure, promoting a simplified and more efficient configuration process.
