---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_cluster_2 Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# materialize_cluster_2 (Resource)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The identifier for the cluster.

### Optional

- `availability_zones` (List of String) The specific availability zones of the cluster.
- `comment` (String) **Public Preview** Comment on an object in the database.
- `disk` (Boolean) **Deprecated**. This attribute is maintained for backward compatibility with existing configurations. New users should use 'cc' sizes for disk access. Disk replicas are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. The `disk` attribute will be enabled by default for 'cc' clusters
- `idle_arrangement_merge_effort` (Number) The amount of effort to exert compacting arrangements during idle periods. This is an unstable option! It may be changed or removed at any time.
- `introspection_debugging` (Boolean) Whether to introspect the gathering of the introspection data.
- `introspection_interval` (String) The interval at which to collect introspection data.
- `ownership_role` (String) The ownership role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `replication_factor` (Number) The number of replicas of each dataflow-powered object to maintain.
- `size` (String) The size of the managed cluster.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The Cluster ID
