---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_cluster Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Clusters describe logical compute resources that can be used by sources, sinks, indexes, and materialized views. Managed clusters are created by setting the size attribute
---

# materialize_cluster (Resource)

Clusters describe logical compute resources that can be used by sources, sinks, indexes, and materialized views. Managed clusters are created by setting the `size` attribute

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_cluster" "example_cluster" {
  name = "cluster"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The identifier for the cluster.

### Optional

- `availability_zones` (List of String) The specific availability zones of the cluster.
- `comment` (String) Comment on an object in the database.
- `disk` (Boolean, Deprecated) **Deprecated**. This attribute is maintained for backward compatibility with existing configurations. New users should use 'cc' sizes for disk access.
- `identify_by_name` (Boolean) Use the cluster name as the resource identifier in your state file, rather than the internal cluster ID. This is particularly useful in scenarios like dbt-materialize blue/green deployments, where clusters are swapped but the ID changes. By identifying by name, the resource can be managed consistently even when the underlying cluster ID is updated.
- `introspection_debugging` (Boolean) Whether to introspect the gathering of the introspection data.
- `introspection_interval` (String) The interval at which to collect introspection data.
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `replication_factor` (Number) The number of replicas of each dataflow-powered object to maintain.
- `scheduling` (Block List, Max: 1) Defines the scheduling parameters for the cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--scheduling))
- `size` (String) The size of the managed cluster.
- `wait_until_ready` (Block List, Max: 1) Defines the parameters for the WAIT UNTIL READY options (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--wait_until_ready))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--scheduling"></a>
### Nested Schema for `scheduling`

Optional:

- `on_refresh` (Block List, Max: 1) Configuration for refreshing the cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--scheduling--on_refresh))

<a id="nestedblock--scheduling--on_refresh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `scheduling.on_refresh`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable scheduling to refresh the cluster.
- `hydration_time_estimate` (String) Estimated time to hydrate the cluster during refresh.
- `rehydration_time_estimate` (String, Deprecated) Estimated time to rehydrate the cluster during refresh. This field is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Use `hydration_time_estimate` instead.



<a id="nestedblock--wait_until_ready"></a>
### Nested Schema for `wait_until_ready`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable wait_until_ready.
- `on_timeout` (String) Action to take on timeout: COMMIT|ROLLBACK
- `timeout` (String) Max duration to wait for the new replicas to be ready.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Clusters can be imported using the cluster id or name
terraform import materialize_cluster.example_cluster <region>:id:<cluster_id>

# To import using the cluster name, you need to set the `identify_by_name` attribute to true
terraform import materialize_cluster.example_cluster <region>:name:<cluster_name>

# Cluster id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_clusters` table
# The region is the region where the database is located (e.g. aws/us-east-1)
```
