---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_connection_kafka Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A Kafka connection establishes a link to a Kafka cluster.
---

# materialize_connection_kafka (Resource)

A Kafka connection establishes a link to a Kafka cluster.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Create a Kafka Connection
resource "materialize_connection_kafka" "example_kafka_connection" {
  name = "example_kafka_connection"
  kafka_broker {
    broker = "b-1.hostname-1:9096"
  }
  sasl_username {
    text = "user"
  }
  sasl_password {
    name          = "kafka_password"
    database_name = "materialize"
    schema_name   = "public"
  }
  sasl_mechanisms = "SCRAM-SHA-256"
  progress_topic  = "example"
}

# CREATE CONNECTION database.schema.kafka_conn TO KAFKA (
#     BROKER 'example:9092'
#     PROGRESS TOPIC 'topic',
#     SASL MECHANISMS 'PLAIN',
#     SASL USERNAME 'user',
#     SASL PASSWORD SECRET "materialize"."public"."kafka_password"
# );

resource "materialize_connection_kafka" "example_kafka_connection_multiple_brokers" {
  name = "example_kafka_connection_multiple_brokers"
  kafka_broker {
    broker            = "b-1.hostname-1:9096"
    target_group_port = "9001"
    availability_zone = "use1-az1"
    privatelink_connection {
      name          = "example_aws_privatelink_conn"
      database_name = "materialize"
      schema_name   = "public"
    }
  }
  kafka_broker {
    broker            = "b-2.hostname-2:9096"
    target_group_port = "9002"
    availability_zone = "use1-az2"
    privatelink_connection {
      name          = "example_aws_privatelink_conn"
      database_name = "materialize"
      schema_name   = "public"
    }
  }
}

# CREATE CONNECTION materialize.public.example_kafka_connection_multiple_brokers TO KAFKA (
#     BROKERS (
#        'b-1.hostname-1:9096' USING AWS PRIVATELINK "materialize"."public"."example_aws_privatelink_conn" (PORT 9001, AVAILABILITY ZONE 'use1-az1'),
#        'b-2.hostname-2:9096' USING AWS PRIVATELINK "materialize"."public"."example_aws_privatelink_conn" (PORT 9002, AVAILABILITY ZONE 'use1-az2')
#     )
# );
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The identifier for the connection.

### Optional

- `aws_connection` (Block List, Max: 1) The AWS connection to use for IAM authentication. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--aws_connection))
- `aws_privatelink` (Block List, Max: 1) AWS PrivateLink configuration. Conflicts with `kafka_broker`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--aws_privatelink))
- `comment` (String) **Public Preview** Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the connection database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `kafka_broker` (Block List) The Kafka broker's configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kafka_broker))
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `progress_topic` (String) The name of a topic that Kafka sinks can use to track internal consistency metadata.
- `progress_topic_replication_factor` (Number) The replication factor to use when creating the Kafka progress topic (if the Kafka topic does not already exist).
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `sasl_mechanisms` (String) The SASL mechanism for the Kafka broker.
- `sasl_password` (Block List, Max: 1) The SASL password for the Kafka broker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--sasl_password))
- `sasl_username` (Block List, Max: 1) The SASL username for the Kafka broker.. Can be supplied as either free text using `text` or reference to a secret object using `secret`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--sasl_username))
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the connection schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `security_protocol` (String) The security protocol to use: `PLAINTEXT`, `SSL`, `SASL_PLAINTEXT`, or `SASL_SSL`.
- `ssh_tunnel` (Block List, Max: 1) The default SSH tunnel configuration for the Kafka brokers. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssh_tunnel))
- `ssl_certificate` (Block List, Max: 1) The client certificate for the Kafka broker.. Can be supplied as either free text using `text` or reference to a secret object using `secret`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssl_certificate))
- `ssl_certificate_authority` (Block List, Max: 1) The CA certificate for the Kafka broker.. Can be supplied as either free text using `text` or reference to a secret object using `secret`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssl_certificate_authority))
- `ssl_key` (Block List, Max: 1) The client key for the Kafka broker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssl_key))
- `validate` (Boolean) **Private Preview** If the connection should wait for validation.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the connection.

<a id="nestedblock--aws_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The aws_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The aws_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The aws_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--aws_privatelink"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_privatelink`

Required:

- `privatelink_connection` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The AWS PrivateLink connection name in Materialize. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--aws_privatelink--privatelink_connection))
- `privatelink_connection_port` (Number) The port of the AWS PrivateLink connection.

<a id="nestedblock--aws_privatelink--privatelink_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_privatelink.privatelink_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The privatelink_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The privatelink_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The privatelink_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--kafka_broker"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kafka_broker`

Required:

- `broker` (String) The Kafka broker, in the form of `host:port`.

Optional:

- `availability_zone` (String) The availability zone of the Kafka broker.
- `privatelink_connection` (Block List, Max: 1) The AWS PrivateLink connection name in Materialize. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kafka_broker--privatelink_connection))
- `ssh_tunnel` (Block List, Max: 1) The name of an SSH tunnel connection to route network traffic through by default. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kafka_broker--ssh_tunnel))
- `target_group_port` (Number) The port of the target group associated with the Kafka broker.

<a id="nestedblock--kafka_broker--privatelink_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kafka_broker.privatelink_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The privatelink_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The privatelink_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The privatelink_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--kafka_broker--ssh_tunnel"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kafka_broker.ssh_tunnel`

Required:

- `name` (String) The ssh_tunnel name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The ssh_tunnel database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The ssh_tunnel schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--sasl_password"></a>
### Nested Schema for `sasl_password`

Required:

- `name` (String) The sasl_password name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The sasl_password database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The sasl_password schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--sasl_username"></a>
### Nested Schema for `sasl_username`

Optional:

- `secret` (Block List, Max: 1) The `sasl_username` secret value. Conflicts with `text` within this block. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--sasl_username--secret))
- `text` (String, Sensitive) The `sasl_username` text value. Conflicts with `secret` within this block

<a id="nestedblock--sasl_username--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `sasl_username.secret`

Required:

- `name` (String) The sasl_username name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The sasl_username database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The sasl_username schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--ssh_tunnel"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssh_tunnel`

Required:

- `name` (String) The ssh_tunnel name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The ssh_tunnel database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The ssh_tunnel schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--ssl_certificate"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssl_certificate`

Optional:

- `secret` (Block List, Max: 1) The `ssl_certificate` secret value. Conflicts with `text` within this block. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssl_certificate--secret))
- `text` (String, Sensitive) The `ssl_certificate` text value. Conflicts with `secret` within this block

<a id="nestedblock--ssl_certificate--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssl_certificate.secret`

Required:

- `name` (String) The ssl_certificate name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The ssl_certificate database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The ssl_certificate schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--ssl_certificate_authority"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssl_certificate_authority`

Optional:

- `secret` (Block List, Max: 1) The `ssl_certificate_authority` secret value. Conflicts with `text` within this block. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssl_certificate_authority--secret))
- `text` (String, Sensitive) The `ssl_certificate_authority` text value. Conflicts with `secret` within this block

<a id="nestedblock--ssl_certificate_authority--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssl_certificate_authority.secret`

Required:

- `name` (String) The ssl_certificate_authority name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The ssl_certificate_authority database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The ssl_certificate_authority schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--ssl_key"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssl_key`

Required:

- `name` (String) The ssl_key name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The ssl_key database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The ssl_key schema name. Defaults to `public`.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Connections can be imported using the connection id:
terraform import materialize_connection_kafka.example <region>:<connection_id>

# Connection id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_connections` table
# The region is the region where the database is located (e.g. aws/us-east-1)
```
