---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_sink_kafka Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A Kafka sink establishes a link to a Kafka cluster that you want Materialize to write data to.
---

# materialize_sink_kafka (Resource)

A Kafka sink establishes a link to a Kafka cluster that you want Materialize to write data to.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_sink_kafka" "example_sink_kafka" {
  name         = "sink_kafka"
  schema_name  = "schema"
  cluster_name = "quickstart"
  from {
    name = "table"
  }
  topic = "test_avro_topic"
  # Optional topic configuration parameters:
  # topic_replication_factor = 1
  # topic_partition_count    = 6
  # topic_config = {
  #   "cleanup.policy" = "compact"
  #   "retention.ms"   = "86400000"
  # }
  format {
    avro {
      schema_registry_connection {
        name          = "csr_connection"
        database_name = "database"
        schema_name   = "schema"
      }
    }
  }
  kafka_connection {
    name = "kafka_connection"
  }
  envelope {
    upsert = true
  }
}

# CREATE SINK schema.sink_kafka
#   FROM schema.table
#   INTO KAFKA CONNECTION "kafka_connection" (TOPIC 'test_avro_topic')
#   FORMAT AVRO USING CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY CONNECTION "database"."schema"."csr_connection"
#   ENVELOPE UPSERT;
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `from` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The name of the source, table or materialized view you want to send to the sink. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--from))
- `kafka_connection` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The name of the Kafka connection to use in the sink. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kafka_connection))
- `name` (String) The identifier for the sink.
- `topic` (String) The Kafka topic you want to subscribe to.

### Optional

- `cluster_name` (String) The cluster to maintain this sink.
- `comment` (String) **Public Preview** Comment on an object in the database.
- `compression_type` (String) The type of compression to apply to messages before they are sent to Kafka.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the sink database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `envelope` (Block List, Max: 1) How to interpret records (e.g. Debezium, Upsert). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--envelope))
- `format` (Block List, Max: 1) How to decode raw bytes from different formats into data structures it can understand at runtime. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format))
- `headers` (String) The name of a column containing additional headers to add to each message emitted by the sink. The column must be of type map[text => text] or map[text => bytea].
- `key` (List of String) An optional list of columns to use for the Kafka key. If unspecified, the Kafka key is left unset.
- `key_not_enforced` (Boolean) Disable Materialize's validation of the key's uniqueness.
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the sink schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `snapshot` (Boolean) Whether to emit the consolidated results of the query before the sink was created at the start of the sink.
- `topic_config` (Map of String) Any topic-level configs to use when creating the Kafka topic (if the Kafka topic does not already exist).
- `topic_partition_count` (Number) The partition count to use when creating the Kafka topic (if the Kafka topic does not already exist).
- `topic_replication_factor` (Number) The replication factor to use when creating the Kafka topic (if the Kafka topic does not already exist).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the sink.
- `size` (String) The size of the cluster maintaining this sink.

<a id="nestedblock--from"></a>
### Nested Schema for `from`

Required:

- `name` (String) The from name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The from database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The from schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--kafka_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kafka_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The kafka_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The kafka_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The kafka_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--envelope"></a>
### Nested Schema for `envelope`

Optional:

- `debezium` (Boolean) The generated schemas have a Debezium-style diff envelope to capture changes in the input view or source.
- `upsert` (Boolean) The sink emits data with upsert semantics: updates and inserts for the given key are expressed as a value, and deletes are expressed as a null value payload in Kafka.


<a id="nestedblock--format"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format`

Optional:

- `avro` (Block List, Max: 1) Avro format. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro))
- `json` (Boolean) JSON format.

<a id="nestedblock--format--avro"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro`

Required:

- `schema_registry_connection` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The name of a schema registry connection. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro--schema_registry_connection))

Optional:

- `avro_doc_column` (Block List) **Private Preview** Add column level documentation comment to the generated Avro schemas. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_column))
- `avro_doc_type` (Block List, Max: 1) **Private Preview** Add top level documentation comment to the generated Avro schemas. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_type))
- `avro_key_fullname` (String) The full name of the Avro key schema.
- `avro_value_fullname` (String) The full name of the Avro value schema.
- `key_compatibility_level` (String) If specified, set the Compatibility Level for the generated key schema.
- `value_compatibility_level` (String) If specified, set the Compatibility Level for the generated value schema.

<a id="nestedblock--format--avro--schema_registry_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro.schema_registry_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The schema_registry_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The schema_registry_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The schema_registry_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_column"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro.avro_doc_column`

Required:

- `column` (String) Name of the column in the Avro schema to apply to.
- `doc` (String) Documentation string.
- `object` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The object to apply the Avro documentation. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_column--object))

Optional:

- `key` (Boolean) Applies to the key schema.
- `value` (Boolean) Applies to the value schema.

<a id="nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_column--object"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro.avro_doc_column.object`

Required:

- `name` (String) The object name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The object database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The object schema name. Defaults to `public`.



<a id="nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_type"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro.avro_doc_type`

Required:

- `doc` (String) Documentation string.
- `object` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The object to apply the Avro documentation. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_type--object))

Optional:

- `key` (Boolean) Applies to the key schema.
- `value` (Boolean) Applies to the value schema.

<a id="nestedblock--format--avro--avro_doc_type--object"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.avro.avro_doc_type.object`

Required:

- `name` (String) The object name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The object database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The object schema name. Defaults to `public`.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Sinks can be imported using the sink id:
terraform import materialize_sink_kafka.example_sink_kafka <region>:<sink_id>

# Sink id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_sinks` table
# The region is the region where the database is located (e.g. aws/us-east-1)
```
