---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source_mysql Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A MySQL source describes a MySQL instance you want Materialize to read data from.
---

# materialize_source_mysql (Resource)

A MySQL source describes a MySQL instance you want Materialize to read data from.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_source_mysql" "test" {
  name          = "source_mysql"
  schema_name   = materialize_schema.test.name
  database_name = materialize_database.test.name

  cluster_name = "quickstart"

  mysql_connection {
    name = materialize_connection_mysql.test.name
  }

  table {
    upstream_name        = "mysql_table1"
    upstream_schema_name = "shop"
    name                 = "mysql_table1_local"
  }

  table {
    upstream_name        = "mysql_table2"
    upstream_schema_name = "shop"
    name                 = "mysql_table2_local"
  }
}

# CREATE SOURCE schema.source_mysql
#   FROM MYSQL CONNECTION "database"."schema"."mysql_connection" (PUBLICATION 'mz_source')
#   FOR TABLES (shop.mysql_table1 AS mysql_table1_local, shop.mysql_table2 AS mysql_table2_local);
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `mysql_connection` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The MySQL connection to use in the source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--mysql_connection))
- `name` (String) The identifier for the source.

### Optional

- `all_tables` (Boolean, Deprecated) Include all tables in the source. If `table` is specified, this will be ignored.
- `cluster_name` (String) The cluster to maintain this source.
- `comment` (String) Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the source database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `expose_progress` (Block List, Max: 1) The name of the progress collection for the source. If this is not specified, the collection will be named `<src_name>_progress`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expose_progress))
- `ignore_columns` (List of String, Deprecated) (Deprecated) Ignore specific columns when reading data from MySQL. Use `materialize_source_table_mysql` resources instead.
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the source schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `table` (Block Set, Deprecated) (Deprecated) Specify the tables to be included in the source. If not specified, all tables are included. Use `materialize_source_table_mysql` resources instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--table))
- `text_columns` (List of String, Deprecated) (Deprecated) Decode data as text for specific columns that contain MySQL types that are unsupported in Materialize. Use `materialize_source_table_mysql` resources instead.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the source.
- `size` (String) The size of the cluster maintaining this source.

<a id="nestedblock--mysql_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mysql_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The mysql_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The mysql_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The mysql_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--expose_progress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expose_progress`

Required:

- `name` (String) The expose_progress name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The expose_progress database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The expose_progress schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--table"></a>
### Nested Schema for `table`

Required:

- `upstream_name` (String) The name of the table in the upstream MySQL database.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The database of the table in Materialize.
- `name` (String) The name for the table, used in Materialize.
- `schema_name` (String) The schema of the table in Materialize.
- `upstream_schema_name` (String) The schema of the table in the upstream MySQL database.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Sources can be imported using the source id:
terraform import materialize_source_mysql.example_source_mysql <region>:<source_id>

# Source id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_sources` table
# The region is the region where the database is located (e.g. aws/us-east-1)
```
