---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source_sql_server Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# materialize_source_sql_server (Resource)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The identifier for the source.
- `sql_server_connection` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The SQL Server connection to use in the source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--sql_server_connection))

### Optional

- `all_tables` (Boolean, Deprecated) Include all tables in the source. If `table` is specified, this will be ignored.
- `cluster_name` (String) The cluster to maintain this source.
- `comment` (String) Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the source database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `exclude_columns` (List of String, Deprecated) Exclude specific columns when reading data from SQL Server. Can only be updated in place when also updating a corresponding `table` attribute. Deprecated: Use the new `materialize_source_table_sql_server` resource instead.
- `expose_progress` (Block List, Max: 1) The name of the progress collection for the source. If this is not specified, the collection will be named `<src_name>_progress`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expose_progress))
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the source schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `table` (Block Set, Deprecated) Specify the tables to be included in the source. Deprecated: Use the new `materialize_source_table_sql_server` resource instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--table))
- `text_columns` (List of String, Deprecated) Decode data as text for specific columns that contain SQL Server types that are unsupported in Materialize. Can only be updated in place when also updating a corresponding `table` attribute. Deprecated: Use the new `materialize_source_table_sql_server` resource instead.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the source.
- `size` (String) The size of the cluster maintaining this source.

<a id="nestedblock--sql_server_connection"></a>
### Nested Schema for `sql_server_connection`

Required:

- `name` (String) The sql_server_connection name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The sql_server_connection database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The sql_server_connection schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--expose_progress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expose_progress`

Required:

- `name` (String) The expose_progress name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The expose_progress database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The expose_progress schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--table"></a>
### Nested Schema for `table`

Required:

- `upstream_name` (String) The name of the table in the upstream SQL Server database.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The database of the table in Materialize.
- `name` (String) The name for the table, used in Materialize.
- `schema_name` (String) The schema of the table in Materialize.
- `upstream_schema_name` (String) The schema of the table in the upstream SQL Server database.
