---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source_table_postgres Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# materialize_source_table_postgres (Resource)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The identifier for the table.
- `source` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The source this table is created from. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--source))
- `upstream_name` (String) The name of the table in the upstream database.

### Optional

- `comment` (String) **Public Preview** Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the table database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the table schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `text_columns` (List of String) Columns to be decoded as text.
- `upstream_schema_name` (String) The schema of the table in the upstream database.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the table.

<a id="nestedblock--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Required:

- `name` (String) The source name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The source database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The source schema name. Defaults to `public`.
