---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A source resource.
---

# materialize_source (Resource)

### Example Usage

```terraform
# Create a source with a load generator
resource "materialize_source" "example_source_load_generator" {
  name                = "source_load_generator"
  schema_name         = "schema"
  size                = "3xsmall"
  connection_type     = "LOAD GENERATOR"
  load_generator_type = "COUNTER"
  tick_interval       = "500ms"
  scale_factor        = 0.01
}

# Create a source with a Postgres connection
resource "materialize_source" "example_source_postgres" {
  name                = "source_postgres"
  schema_name         = "schema"
  size                = "3xsmall"
  connection_type     = "POSTGRES"
  postgres_connection = "pg_connection"
  publication         = "mz_source"
  tables = {
    "schema1.table_1" = "s1_table_1"
    "schema2_table_1" = "s2_table_1"
  }
}

# Create a source with a Kafka connection
resource "materialize_source" "example_source_kafka" {
  name                       = "source_kafka"
  schema_name                = "schema"
  size                       = "3xsmall"
  connection_type            = "KAFKA"
  kafka_connection           = "kafka_connection"
  schema_registry_connection = "csr_connection"
  format                     = "AVRO"
  envelope                   = "data"
}
```

### Required

- `name` - (String) The name of the source.
- `connection_type` - (String) The type of the source. Allowed values are `KAFKA`, `LOAD GENERATOR`, and `POSTGRES`.
- `load_generator_type` - (String) The type of the load generator. Required with `connection_type` set to `LOAD GENERATOR`. Conflicts with `kafka_connection` and `postgres_connection`.
- `postgres_connection` - (String) The name of the Postgres connection to use. Required with `connection_type` set to `POSTGRES`. Conflicts with `kafka_connection` and `load_generator_type`.
- `kafka_connection` - (String) The name of the Kafka connection to use. Required with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Conflicts with `postgres_connection` and `load_generator_type`.

### Optional

- `database_name` - (String) The name of the database to create the source in. Defaults to `materialize`.
- `schema_name` - (String) The name of the schema to create the source in. Defaults to `public`.
- `size` - (String) The size of the source. Conflicts with `cluster_name`. Available sizes: `3xsmall`, `2xsmall`, `xsmall`, `small`, `medium`, `large`, `xlarge`.
- `cluster_name` - (String) The name of the cluster to create the source in.
- `tick_interval` - (String) The tick interval of the load generator. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `LOAD GENERATOR`. Defaults to `1s`.
- `scale_factor` - (Float) The scale factor of the load generator. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `LOAD GENERATOR`. Defaults to `1.0`.
- `publication` - (String) The name of the Postgres publication to use. Required with `connection_type` set to `POSTGRES`. Conflicts with `kafka_connection` and `load_generator_type`.
- `tables` - (Map) A map of table names to alias names. Required with `connection_type` set to `POSTGRES`. Conflicts with `kafka_connection` and `load_generator_type`.
- `topic` - (String) The name of the Kafka topic to use. Required with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Conflicts with `postgres_connection` and `load_generator_type`.
- `include_keys` - (Boolean) Whether to include keys in the Kafka source. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Defaults to `false`.
- `include_partition` - (Boolean) Whether to include partition in the Kafka source. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Defaults to `false`.
- `include_offset` - (Boolean) Whether to include offset in the Kafka source. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Defaults to `false`.
- `format` - (String) The format of the Kafka source. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Defaults to `AVRO`.
- `envelope` - (String) The envelope of the Kafka source. Allowed with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Defaults to `data`.
- `schema_registry_connection` - (String) The name of the schema registry connection to use. Required with `connection_type` set to `KAFKA`. Conflicts with `postgres_connection` and `load_generator_type`.
