---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source_webhook Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Private Preview A webhook source describes a webhook you want Materialize to read data from.
---

# materialize_source_webhook (Resource)

**Private Preview** A webhook source describes a webhook you want Materialize to read data from.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_source_webhook" "example_webhook" {
  name            = "example_webhook"
  cluster_name    = materialize_cluster.example_cluster.name
  body_format     = "json"
  include_headers = false
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `body_format` (String) The body format of the webhook.
- `name` (String) The identifier for the source.

### Optional

- `check_expression` (String) The check expression for the webhook.
- `check_options` (Block List) The check options for the webhook. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--check_options))
- `cluster_name` (String) The cluster to maintain this source.
- `comment` (String) **Private Preview** Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the source database. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `include_header` (Block List) Map a header value from a request into a column. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--include_header))
- `include_headers` (Block List, Max: 1) Include headers in the webhook. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--include_headers))
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the source schema. Defaults to `public`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the source.
- `size` (String) The size of the source.
- `subsource` (List of Object) Subsources of a source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--subsource))

<a id="nestedblock--check_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `check_options`

Required:

- `field` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) The field for the check options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--check_options--field))

Optional:

- `alias` (String) The alias for the check options.
- `bytes` (Boolean) Change type to `bytea`.

<a id="nestedblock--check_options--field"></a>
### Nested Schema for `check_options.field`

Optional:

- `body` (Boolean) The body for the check options.
- `headers` (Boolean) The headers for the check options.
- `secret` (Block List, Max: 1) The secret for the check options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--check_options--field--secret))

<a id="nestedblock--check_options--field--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `check_options.field.secret`

Required:

- `name` (String) The secret name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The secret database name.
- `schema_name` (String) The secret schema name.




<a id="nestedblock--include_header"></a>
### Nested Schema for `include_header`

Required:

- `header` (String) The name for the header.

Optional:

- `alias` (String) The alias for the header.
- `bytes` (Boolean) Change type to `bytea`.


<a id="nestedblock--include_headers"></a>
### Nested Schema for `include_headers`

Optional:

- `all` (Boolean) Include all headers.
- `not` (List of String) Headers that should be excluded.
- `only` (List of String) Headers that should be included.


<a id="nestedatt--subsource"></a>
### Nested Schema for `subsource`

Read-Only:

- `database_name` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `schema_name` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Sources can be imported using the source id:
terraform import materialize_source_webhook.example_source_webhook <source_id>

# Source id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_sources` table
```
