---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_source_load_generator Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A load generator source produces synthetic data for use in demos and performance tests.
---

# materialize_source_load_generator (Resource)

A load generator source produces synthetic data for use in demos and performance tests.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_source_load_generator" "example_source_load_generator" {
  name         = "source_load_generator"
  schema_name  = "schema"
  cluster_name = "quickstart"

  load_generator_type = "TPCH"

  tpch_options {
    tick_interval = "500ms"
    scale_factor  = 0.01
  }
}

# CREATE SOURCE schema.source_load_generator
#   FROM LOAD GENERATOR TPCH
#   (TICK INTERVAL '500ms', SCALE FACTOR 0.01)
#   FOR ALL TABLES;
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `load_generator_type` (String) The load generator types: [AUCTION MARKETING TPCH KEY VALUE].
- `name` (String) The identifier for the source.

### Optional

- `auction_options` (Block List, Max: 1) Auction Options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--auction_options))
- `cluster_name` (String) The cluster to maintain this source.
- `comment` (String) Comment on an object in the database.
- `database_name` (String) The identifier for the source database in Materialize. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `expose_progress` (Block List, Max: 1) The name of the progress collection for the source. If this is not specified, the collection will be named `<src_name>_progress`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expose_progress))
- `key_value_options` (Block List, Max: 1) KEY VALUE Load Generator Options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--key_value_options))
- `marketing_options` (Block List, Max: 1) Marketing Options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--marketing_options))
- `ownership_role` (String) The owernship role of the object.
- `region` (String) The region to use for the resource connection. If not set, the default region is used.
- `schema_name` (String) The identifier for the source schema in Materialize. Defaults to `public`.
- `tpch_options` (Block List, Max: 1) TPCH Options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--tpch_options))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `qualified_sql_name` (String) The fully qualified name of the source.
- `size` (String) The size of the cluster maintaining this source.

<a id="nestedblock--auction_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auction_options`

Optional:

- `scale_factor` (Number, Deprecated) (Deprecated) The scale factor for the generator. Defaults to 0.01 (~ 10MB).
- `tick_interval` (String) The interval at which the next datum should be emitted. Defaults to one second.


<a id="nestedblock--expose_progress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expose_progress`

Required:

- `name` (String) The expose_progress name.

Optional:

- `database_name` (String) The expose_progress database name. Defaults to `MZ_DATABASE` environment variable if set or `materialize` if environment variable is not set.
- `schema_name` (String) The expose_progress schema name. Defaults to `public`.


<a id="nestedblock--key_value_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `key_value_options`

Required:

- `keys` (Number) The number of keys in the source. This must be divisible by the product of 'partitions' and 'batch_size'.

Optional:

- `batch_size` (Number) The number of keys per partition to produce in each update.
- `partitions` (Number) The number of partitions to spread the keys across.
- `seed` (Number) A per-source seed for seeding the random data.
- `snapshot_rounds` (Number) The number of rounds of data to produce as the source starts up.
- `tick_interval` (String) The interval at which the next datum should be emitted. Defaults to one second.
- `transactional_snapshot` (Boolean) Whether to emit the snapshot as a singular transaction.
- `value_size` (Number) The number of bytes in each value.


<a id="nestedblock--marketing_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `marketing_options`

Optional:

- `scale_factor` (Number, Deprecated) (Deprecated) The scale factor for the generator. Defaults to 0.01 (~ 10MB).
- `tick_interval` (String) The interval at which the next datum should be emitted. Defaults to one second.


<a id="nestedblock--tpch_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tpch_options`

Optional:

- `scale_factor` (Number) The scale factor for the generator. Defaults to 0.01 (~ 10MB).
- `tick_interval` (String) The interval at which the next datum should be emitted. Defaults to one second.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Sources can be imported using the source id:
terraform import materialize_source_load_generator.example_source_load_generator <region>:<source_id>

# Source id and information be found in the `mz_catalog.mz_sources` table
# The region is the region where the database is located (e.g. aws/us-east-1)
```
