---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "materialize_sso_config Resource - terraform-provider-materialize"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# materialize_sso_config (Resource)



## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "materialize_sso_config" "example_sso_config" {
  enabled            = true
  sso_endpoint       = "https://sso.example2.com"
  public_certificate = "PUBLIC_CERTIFICATE"
  sign_request       = true
  type               = "saml"
  oidc_client_id     = "client-id"
  oidc_secret        = "client-secret"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether SSO is enabled or not. If enabled, users will be redirected to the SSO endpoint for authentication. The configuration needs to be valid for SSO to work.
- `public_certificate` (String) The public certificate of the SSO service. This is used to verify the SSO response. The certificate must be in PEM format. The certificate must be accessible from the browser. If the certificate is not accessible from the browser, you can use the public certificate of the Identity Provider (IdP) instead.
- `sign_request` (Boolean) Indicates whether the SSO request needs to be digitally signed.
- `sso_endpoint` (String) The URL endpoint for the SSO service. This is the URL that users will be redirected to for authentication. The URL must be accessible from the browser.
- `type` (String) Defines the type of SSO protocol being used (e.g., SAML, OIDC).

### Optional

- `oidc_client_id` (String) The client ID of the OIDC application. This is used to identify the application to the OIDC service. This is required if the type is OIDC.
- `oidc_secret` (String) The client secret of the OIDC application. This is used to authenticate the application to the OIDC service. This is required if the type is OIDC.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# SSO Configuration ID can be found in the URL when viewing the SSO Configuration in the UI
terraform import materialize_sso_config.example <sso_config_id>
```
